Date Coll: SPECIMEN. A. Left axillary sentinel node. B. Left breast silk on superior breast. CLINICAL NOTES. PRE-OP DIAGNOSIS: Left breast cancer. CLINICAL HISTORY: year-old white female with cancer. POST-OP DIAGNOSIS: Same. GROSS DESCRIPTION. A. Received fresh labeled "left axillary node" is a 3.8. x. 2.4 x 0.6 cm. portion of soft, lobulated golden-yellow. adipose tissue. Two (2) slightly rubbery tan-pink tissues in. keeping with lymph node measuring 0.8 and 1.8 cm. in greatest. dimension are recovered. The specimen is entirely submitted in. three blocks as labeled: BLOCK SUMMARY: #A1,A2 - One (1) bisected lymph node per cassette;. -1 adipose tissue. B. Received fresh labeled "left breast" is a 21.5 cm. (superior to inferior) x 20.5 cm (medial to lateral) x 3.8. cm (anterior to posterior) diffusely cauterized soft, lobulated. tan-gold-white portion of fibroadipose tissue in keeping with breast. designated as left per requisition slip and container and oriented. by a single suture as stated previously. A 7.2 cm (medial to. lateral) x 4.7 cm (superior to inferior) tan-white skin ellipse is. present along the anterior aspect. The intact deep margin is inked. black and the specimen is sectioned. There is a central, stellate,. 3.0 cm (medial to lateral) x 2.2 cm (superior to inferior) x 2.0. cm. (anterior to posterior) rubbery tan-white lesion at the junction of. the four quadrants with several cylindrical tan-white structures in. keeping with site of prior needle core biopsy. A portion of the. lesion and a portion of normal are submitted for tissue procurement. as. requested. The lesion is present within 0.8 cm of the skin. surface in the vicinity of the nipple and is within 0.5 cm of the. inked deep margin. The parenchyma throughout the remainder of the. specimen consists predominantly of glistening lobulated golden. yellow adipose tissue with a moderate amount of interspersed dense. tan-white fibrous tissue. No additional mass lesion or abnormality. is identified. Three rubbery white-pink tissues in keeping with. lymph nodes measuring up to 0.8 cm in greatest dimension are. recovered from the lateral aspect of the specimen. Representative. sections are submitted in 12 blocks as labeled. BLOCK SUMMARY: 1-2 - Tumor to inked deep margin; 3-4 - tumor to. skin (4 includes nipple); 5-6 - tumor to adjacent parenchyma; 7 -. random upper outer quadrant; 8 - upper inner quadrant; 9 - lower. inner quadrant; 10 - lower outer quadrant; 11 - two whole lymph. nodes; 12 - one bisected lymph node. MICROSCOPIC DESCRIPTION. Invasive carcinoma: Histologic type: Ductal (with lobular features). Histologic grade : III. Overall grade: 8/9. Architectural score: 3. Nuclear score: 3. Mitotic score: 2. Greatest dimension (pT) : 3.0 cm. Specimen margins: Negative. Vessel invasion: Present. Calcification: Negative. Nipple (Paget's) : Carcinoma involves the deep nipple tissue, and. is present in the deep dermis within the skin adjacent to the. nipple (areolar area) . Invasion of skin or chest wall: As above. Ductal carcinoma in situ: Histologic pattern: Cribriform. Nuclear grade: 3. Central necrosis: Present. 8 DCIS of total tumor (if mixed) : < 10%. Extensive intraductal component (present/absent) : Absent. Specimen margins: Negative. Calcification: Negative. Description of non-tumorous breast: Fibrocystic changes,. fibroadenomata. Comments: Prior biopsy site identified within the main tumor mass. There is an additional satellite nodule of invasive tumor, 2 mm in. greatest dimension, in the lower outer quadrant, away from the main. tumor mass, and associated with ductal carcinoma in-situ. This. focus of invasive tumor is 2 mm from the deep margin. Lymph nodes: Two negative sentinel lymph nodes, and two negative. additional lymph nodes (0/4). Prognostic markers: See previous report,. 4x2. DIAGNOSIS. A. Sentinel lymph node, left axilla, biopsy: Two negative lymph nodes (0/2). B. Breast, deft mastectomy: Invasive ductal carcinoma, grade III, 3.0 cm in greatest. dimension. Negative margins of excision. Lymphovascular invasion identified. Two negative lymph nodes (0/2). ectronic Signature). End Of Report ---.