F. Path Report. ACCESSION NO. : Final Diagnosis(es): (A) Left simple mastectomy: 1) Benign breast with areas of stromal fibrosis. 2) No atypia, in-situ or invasive malignancy identified,. including margins. 3) Skin and nipple unremarkable. (B) Right simple mastectomy: 1) Infiltrating lobular carcinoma, Nottingham grade Il of. III. 2) Pathologic stage pT3 psnNo pMX. 3) See Synoptic report (below) for details. (C) Right axilla sentinel lymph node #1: One lymph node. negative for metastasis (0/1). Synoptic Report: Specimen Type: Total breast (including nipple and skin). Procedure: Simple mastectomy. Lymph Node Sampling: Sentinel lymph node. Laterality: Right. Tumor Type: Lobular. Tumor Focality: Single. Tumor Site: Lower outer quadrant. Tumor Size: 7.8 x 7.0 x 6.0 cm. Nottingham Grade: II of III. Skin: Present, unremarkable. Nipple: Present, unremarkable. Skeletal Muscle: Absent. Invasive Margins: Widely negative. Lobular Carcinoma in Situ: Not present. Ductal Carcinoma in Situ: Not present. Lymphvascular Invasion: Not identified. Lymph nodes: Sentinel: 0/1 (positive/total). CK 10.11 performed on block B1. Anciliary Studies: Estrogen Receptor: Positive, strong, 95%. Progesterone Receptor. Positive, strong, 50%. Her-2/neu: 0+ (0-3+ scale). (was not sent for FISH analysis). KI-67: 25%. MD. Specimen(s) Received: A: left simple mastectomy. B: right simple mastectomy. C: right axilla sentinel lymph node # 1. Printed from: Default. Page: 1 of 5. F. Clinical History: High risk breast cancer left. (A) Short - superior, long - lateral. (B) Short superior, long - lateral. (C) Count 166. Intraoperative Consultation: FSC1-FSC2: Right axilla sentinel lymph node #1: Benign (2. blocks). M.D. Gross Description: (A) (left simple mastectomy). Specimen type: Simple mastectomy. Specimen weight and dimensions: The specimen weighs 1595 gm and. measures 23.5 x 22.5 x 6.3 cm. Skin: The overlying skin ellipse measures 22.0 x 11.0 cm. The. skin appears tan-pink and unremarkable. Orientation and inking scheme: The specimen is oriented as. follows: One short suture denoting the superior orientation and. one long suture representing the lateral left orientation. The. specimen is inked as follows: Medial - red, lateral - green. Estimated size of lesion: Sectioning of the breast demonstrates. unremarkable fibrofatty tissue with no nodules or masses seen or. palpated. Blocks submitted: A1 - section of nipple. A2-A3 - two sections from upper lateral portion of breast. A4-A5 - two representative sections of the lower lateral. quadrant. A6-A7 - representative sections of lower medial quadrant. A8-A9 - representative sections of upper medial quadrant. (B) (right simple mastectomy). Specimen type: Simple mastectomy. Specimen weight and dimensions: The specimen weighs 1670 gm and. measures 26.0 x 28.0 x 6.0 cm. Skin: The ellipse of overlying skin measure 24.5 x 9.0 cm. The. skin is pink and unremarkable. Orientation and inking scheme: The specimen is oriented as. follows: One short suture denoting the superior orientation and. one long suture representing the lateral left orientation. The. specimen is inked as follows: Deep margin - black, anterior. lateral margin - red, anterior medial margin - blue. Estimated size of lesion: The breast is serially sectioned. The. primary lesion measures approximately 7.0 x 7.8 x 6.0 cm. Appearance of lesion: The lesion is firm and tan-white, and. infiltrates into the breast parenchyma. Printed from: Default. Page: 2 of 5. F. Location of lesion: The lesion is located approximately 7.0 cm. medial to the center of the specimen in the lower lateral. quadrant. Distance from closest margin: The primary lesion is located 1.5. cm superficial to the deep margin, 4.0 cm from the anterior. margin, 6.0 cm from the lateral margin, 19.0 cm to the medial. margin, 6.0 cm to the inferior margin, and 14.0 cm to the. superior margin. Other findings: Two possible satellite lesions are located with. one central and one at 2:00. The central lesion measures 6.5 x. 3.0 x 3.0 cm. The lesion at 2:00 measures 1.5 x 2.5 x 2.5 cm. Uninvolved parenchyma: The uninvolved parenchyma demonstrates. unremarkable fibrofatty tissue. Axillary tail and lymph nodes: No axillary tail is received in. this specimen. Blocks submitted: B1 nipple. B2 - fat overlying tumor. B3 - skin overlying tumor. B4-B8 - representative sections from the primary tumor. B9-B10 - representative sections from the centrally located. possible satellite lesion. B11-B12 - two representative sections from the lesion at 2:00. B13-14 - representative sections of uninvolved parenchyma from. the upper medial quadrant. B15-B16 - representative sections of uninvolved parenchyma. B17-B18 - representative sections of the lower lateral quadrant. B19-B20 - two representative sections of uninvolved parenchyma. from the upper lateral quadrant. B21 - section of the medial margin. B22 - section of the lateral margin. B23 - section of the inferior margin. B24 - section of the superior margin of uninvolved parenchyma. (C) (right axilla sentinel lymph node #1) Received fresh for. intraoperative consultation is one piece of fatty tissue. measuring 3.3 x 2.4 x 1.0 cm. The specimen is bisected with. one-half submitted in FSC1 and the other half submitted in FSC2. for frozen section evaluation. One lymph node was received in. formalin and submitted entirely in C3. Microscopic Description: Complete microscopic evaluation has been performed. Appropriately reacting controls have been performed and. evaluated for all stains on this case as required. Histopathology has a list of IH antibodies that are regulated as. analyte specific reagents (ASR's). These assays were developed. and their performance characteristics determined by the. at. They. have not been cleared by the US Food and Drug Administration. Printed from: Default. Page: 3 of 5. F. 1. The FDA has determined that such clearance or approval is not. necessary for the ASR's. These tests are not investigational. and are used in standard clinical care. In cases where. Immunohistochemistry testing is performed, the following. antibodies and their respective clones may be used to determine. therapy for the patient: EFGR(31G7), ER(SP1), PR(1E2),. Her2neu(4B5), CD117(Poly), CD20(L26). Unless otherwise stated in the report, all tissue tested for. ERPR by IHC, Her2 by IHC and/or HER2 by FISH have been fixed as. per ANP 22998 for a minimum of 6 hours and a maximum of 48. hours. ER, PR, Ki-67, p53 are reported as a semi-quantitative. percentage of positively stained nuclei. Her-2/neu and EGFR are. scored as follows: No staining at all is scored as (0), weak,. incomplete membrane staining in any proportion of cells is. scored as (1+), less than strong but complete staining in any. proportion of cells or complete strong staining in less than 30%. of cells is scored as (2+), and strong complete staining in more. that 30% of cells is scored as (3+). All studies are performed. on tissue fixed in 10% neutral buffered formalin and embedded in. paraffin unless otherwise stated in the report. Page: 4 of 5.