Sex: Female. Ref Physman. ADDENDUM REPORT. BREAST PROGNOSTIC PANEL: Block(A4). TEST. REFERENCE RANGES. Estrogen Receptor: POSITIVE (93%). 1% is Positive. < 1% is Negative. Staining Intensity: Strong. Progesterone Receptor: POSITIVE (60%). 1% is Positive. < 1% is Negative. Staining Intensity: Strong. Ki-67 (MIB1) Proliferation Marker. HIGH (32%). > 20% is High. 10-20% is Borderline. <10% is Low. Her2 by IHC: EQUIVOCAL (2+ staining). 0-1+ Negative. 2+ Equivocal. 3+ Positive. Weak, circumferential membrane staining in > 10% of cancer cells or <30% with strong complete membrane. staining. A reflex to HER-2/neu by FISH (fluorescent in situ hybridization) will be performed and an additional report will follow. These results were interpreted at. Slides from this sample. were evaluated and deemed adequate for ER/PR/Ki-67/. asay conditions were met, including cold ischemia time and fixation. parameters. All controls show appropriate reactivity. [Specific testing information and references have been added to the microscopic description). The original diagnosis remains unchanged. DIAGNOSIS: A. Right breast mastectomy: Invasive mammary carcinoma. Favor pleomorphic lobular carcinoma. Size: 2.2 cm. Architectural score: 3 of 3. Nuclear score: 2 of 3. Mitotic score: 2 of 3. Total score: 7 of 9. Grade 2. Prognostic panel will follow as an addendum. No evidence of in situ carcinoma. No evidence of angiolymphatic invasion. All surgical margins of excision are free of carcinoma. Closest margin is deep and is 1.5 cm. B. Right axiliary sentinel lymph node: One lymph node, Metastatic carcinoma. Size of involvement within the node: 0.3 cm. No evidence of extracapsular extension. Confirmed by staining for pancytokeratin. TMN: T2pN1. CLINICAL HISTORY: Preoperative Diagnosis: Right modified radical mastectomy with sentinel node mapping with frozen section. Invasive mammary carcinoma. ER positive. PR positive. Her-2 negative. Postoperative Diagnosis: Symptoms/Radiologic Findings: SPECIMENS: A. Right breast. B. Right axilla sentinel node. GROSS DESCRIPTION: A. The first container A is received labeled with the patient's name. ight breast.' The specimen consists of portion of fibroadipose breast. tissue. and. overlying. skin. measuring 20.0 x 16.5 x 6.0 cm and weighs 643 grams. The skin surface measures 20.0 x 9.2 cm, is light tan, wrinkled. There. are. lesions. seen. grossly. The nipple is eccentrically placed and appears grossly unremarkable. There is no orientation given to the specimen. The. margins have been inked yellow with the exception of the deep margin, which has been inked black. Sectioning reveais a firm gray-tan ill-defined mass. that measures 2.2 x 2.0 x 1.8 cm that is 1.5 cm from the deep margin and is 2.7 from the closest lateral margin. The surrounding breast tissue reveals. yellow-tan fatty fibroadipose tissue. There are no other lesions identified. At the periphery of the breast, there are no lymph nodes identified. Received. with the specimen are three cassettes, one yellow, one green and one blue labeled. Representative sections are submitted in cassettes. labeled. follows: nipple block 1; deep margin overlying the mass in block 2; sections from the mass in blocks 3 through 7; random. sections taken from all four quadrants in blocks 8 through 11. B. The second container B is received in formalin labeled. right axilla sentinel node.' The specimen consists of a portion of fibroadipose. tissue that measures 3.5 x 2.0 x 1.5 cm. Sectioning reveais a single rymph node that measures 1.8 x 0.7 x 0.9 cm. The lymph node is sectioned and is. entirely submitted in two cassettes labeled. MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION: THERAPEUTIC MARKER ASSAY CONDITIONS. Breast Cancer Analysis using Immuno-histochemistry,. and Pathologist. review. is an automated digital slide creation, management, viewing. and computer-assisted analysis system which aids the pathologist in the detection, classification,. ER/PgR,. and counting of cells of interest thereby standardizing slide scoring through quantitative. HER2/neu Scoring. assessment of marker intensity, size and shape. This laboratory uses a modified version of a FDA. approved test. An antibody other than the FDA approved antibody for the. system. algorithm is used. The performance characteristics of these assays have been determined by. Performance characteristics refer to the analytical performance of the. test. Cold Ischemic. Specimen should be placed in neutral buffered formalin within 1 hour of removal from the patient. Time, Fixative,. and fixed for a minimum of 6 but not in excess of 48 hours. Specimen are processed by routine. Processing. tissue processing methods. Staining Method Used. Staining platform, antibodies and associated reagent below are all manufactured by. and. are FDA approved. ER - Anti-Estrogen receptor (clone SP1) primary antibody is a rabbit monocional antibody (IgG) that. is used for the qualitative detection of estrogen receptor antigens. PgR - Anti-Progesterone Receptor (clone 1E2) primary antibody is a rabbit monocional antibody. Primary. (IgG) that is used for the quantitative detection of the A, B and C isoforms of human progesterone. Antibodies. receptor antigens. Ki-67 - Anti-Ki-67 primary antibody is directed against the C-terminal portion of the Ki-67 antigen,. which is expressed in the nuclei of proliferating cells (normal and neoplastic). The antibody identifies. proliferating activity in sections of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue on an automated slide. stainer platform. (IgG) HER-2/neu that is used - PATHWAY for semi-quantitative Anti-HER-2/neu detection (485) of primary antibody is a rabbit monocional antibody. automated ER, PR, HER-2/neu are platform. prepared from sections of formalin-fixed, HER2 antigens. paraffin-embedded tissue on an. slide stainer. Controls. Antigen. A tris based buffer internal elements from normal breast tissue included low protein with expression,. protein All Controls expression, show appropriate reactivity (high protein expression, negative. Retrieval Type. Detection. the covalent with a slightly basic pH, tissue. which, at elevated temperatures is sample. capable of hydrolyzing. bonds formed by formalin in. System Type. Indirect biotin streptavidin detection system.