F. Pathologic Interpretation: A. Sentinel node # 1 count. - Metastatic carcinoma to one lymph node, (0/1). - Metastatic deposit: 0.6 cm. NOTE: Metastatic deposit is only present on permanent slides. B. Sentinel node # 2 count. - No carcinoma seen in one lymph node (0/1). - Immunohistochemistry for keratin to follow. C. Right breast 1 short superior, 1 long lateral: - Invasiye and in situ moderately differentiated ductal carcinoma, Nottingham grade 2 (3+2+1), 2.5 cm in greatest. dimension. - Resection margins are free of tumor (closest margin at 1.0 cm: inferior). - Lymphovascular invasion is not present. - DCIS, intermediate nuclear grade without necrosis, cribriform type, present in 2 of 15 slides examined. - See Tumor Summary. Tumor Summary: Specimen: - Total breast. Procedure: - Total mastectomy. Lymph Node Sampling: - Sentinel lymph node. Specimen Integrity: - Single intact specimen. Specimen Laterality: - Right. Tumor Size: - Greatest dimension of largest focus of invasion: 2.5 cm. Tumor Focality: - Single focus of invasive carcinoma. Macroscopic and Microscopic Extent of Tumor: - Skin: Invasive carcinoma does not invade into the dermis or epidermis. - Skeletal Muscle: No skeletal muscle present. Ductal Carcinoma in Situ (DCIS): - DCIS is present: - Extensive intraductal component (EIC) negative. - Size (Extent) of DCIS: - Number of blocks with DCIS: 2. - Number of blocks examined: 15. Architectural Pattern: - Cribriform. Nuclear Grade: - Grade II (Intermediate). Necrosis: - Not identified. Lobular Carcinoma in Situ: - Not identified. Histologic Type of Invasive Carcinoma: - Invasive ductal carcinoma. Histologic Grade: SURGICAL PATHOL Report. - Glandular (Acinar)/Tubular Differentiation: - Score 3: <10 of tumor area forming glandular/tubular structures. - Nuclear Pleomorphism: - Score 2: Cells larger than no9rmal with open vesicular nuclei, visible nucieoli, and moderate variability. in both size and shape. - Mitotic Count: - Score 1. - Overall Grade: - Grade 2. Margins: - Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma: Distance from closest margin: 10 mm (Inferior). Lymph-Vascular Invasion: - Not identified. Dermal Lymph-Vascular Invasion: - Not identified. Lymph Nodes: Number of sentinel lymph nodes examined: 2. Total number of lymph nodes examined (sentinei and nonsentinel): 2. Number of lymph nodes with macrometastases (>0.2 cm): 1. Number of lymph nodes with micrometastases (>0.2 mm to 0.2 cm and /or > 200 cells): 0. Number of lymph nodes with Isolated tumor cells (1.2 mm and <200 cells): 0. Size of largest Metastatic deposit: 0.6 cm. Extranodal Extension: Not identified. Method of Evaluation of Sentinel Lymph Nodes: - Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), one level. - Immunohistochemistry. Ancillary Studies: Estrogen Receptor: Pending. Progesterone Receptor: Pending. Her2/neu FISH: Performed on another specimer. Results: Not amplified (HER2 gene copy <4.0 or ratio < 1.8). Pathologic Staging: Primary Tumor (Invasive Carcinoma) (pT): pT2. Regional Lymph Nodes (pN) Modifier: (sn) pN1a. Distant Metastasis (M): Not applicable. Pathologic Staging: pT2, pN1a, MX. NOTE: Some FDA approval. These clones antibodies are used: are ID5=ER, analyte specific PgR 636=PR, reagents A485-HER2, (ASRs) validated H-11=EGFR, by our leboretory CCH2/DOG9=CMV, (Her 2, Parvo, F39.4. H. pylort, 1=AR and HBcore). HPV by Thase ISH. ASRs AI immunohistochertic are cilinically uselui indicators stains are that used. do. not with require formalin or molecular fixed, paraffin embedded tissue. Detection is by LSAB. The results are read by . pathologist as positive or negative. As the attending pathologist, , attest that I: (1) Exemined the relevent. preparation(s) for the specimen(s); and (4) Renderedithe diagnosis(es). Procedures/Addenda. Addendum. Date Complete: Addendum Diagnosis. "B" Immunohistochemistry for keratin is negative for carcinoma. SURGICAL PATHOL Report. "C" The tumor cells are positive for ER and PR and negative for HER-2 by Immunohistochemistry. MD. Intraoperative Consultation. AFS. Sentinel node # 1 count. ) fs: Negative for carcinoma. BFS. Sentinel node # 2 count : fs: Lymph node; negative for tumor. CFS. Right breast 1 short superior, 1 long lateral fs. Inferior margin; negative for tumor (grossly and microscopically 1.0 cm from margin). Superficial margin-negative for tumor (gross and microscopic microscopically 3 cm from tumor). :, MD. Clinical History: Patient is a. I female with right breast cancer. Pre Operative Diagnosis: Right breast cancer, tissue study patient. Specimen(s) Received: A: Sentinel node # 1 count. fs. B: Sentinel node # 2 count : fs. C: Right breast 1 short superior, 1 long lateral fs. Gross Description: A. Received in formalin and labeled "sentinel node # 1 count. fs" consists of irregular shaped, adipose tissue fragment,. 1.5 x 1.1 x 0.6 cm. Specimen submitted as follows. 1. Section for frozen. 2&4. The reminders of the specimen in toto. B. Received in formalin and labeled "sentinel node # 2 count. fs" consists of irregular shaped, adipose tissue fragment,. 2.6 x 1.8 x 0.5 cm. Specimen submitted as follows. 1. Sections for frozen. 2&3. Reminders of specimen in toto. C. Received in formalin and labeled "right breast 1 short superior, 1 long lateral fs" consists of a mastectomy specimen. weighing 6.63 grams and measures 20.0 x 16.0 x 4.0 cm. Specimen is oriented with a short stitch superior and a long. stitch lateral. There is an ellipse of skin present, 10.0 x 5.5 cm the nipple and areola are present. The areola complex. measure 5.0 cm in greatest dimension. The nipple is inverted, distracted and measures 0.7 cm in greatest dimension. For. gross purpose the specimen is inked as follow: Superior resection margin inked blue, inferior resection margin inked. green, medial resection margin inked red, lateral resection margin inked orange, anterior margin inked yellow and. posterior surgical resection margin inked black. Sectioning of the specimen reveals an ill-defined, pale-tan, firm mass, 2.5. x 1.5 x 1.5 cm. This mass is grossly located 1.0 cm from inferior resection margin and 3.0 cm from lateral resection. margin. It is located 2.0 cm from the anterior resection margin and 1.0 cm from the deep resection margin. upon. sectioning the stroma is composed of yellow, lobulated adipose tissue. The firm, white area is closely associated with the. skin. No other lesions are identified. Specimen submitted as follows. 1. Inferior margin for frozen sections. SURGICAL PATHOL Report. 2. Lateral margin for frozen sections. 3. Nipple. 4-6. Sections of mass. 7. Prior biopsy site with clip. 8. Closest deep margin. 9. Mass with skin. 10. Medial margin. 11. Superior margin. 12. lower inner quadrant. 13. Upper inner quadrant. 14. Upper outer quadrant. 15. Lower outer quadrant. ICD-9(s): 196.3 174.8. Anatomic Pathology Consult Report. F. Client: Interpretation: RIGHT BREAST: INFILTRATING DUCTAL CARCINOMA, INTERMEDIATE NUCLEAR GRADE. IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY IS REPORTED TO BE POSITIVE FOR ESTROGEN RECEPTOR AND. PROGESTERONE RECEPTOR (IN THE ORIGINAL LABORATORY). HER2-FISH IS REPORTED TO BE NEGATIVE (IN THE ORIGINAL LABORATORY). NOTE: Some are amalyses spectic reagents (ASRe) by our Inboratury (Her 2 Parvo, H. Thear ASRs are clinically - indicators that - not require FDA appreval Then clanes. IDS-ER. PgR 6J6-PR, 1485-HER2. H.II-EGFR. CCH2DDG9-CMV, F39 4. /-AR and HPV by ISH A# - are ased - formalia - moleculer Delection is by Method The resulte are - tya. patholagiar or - or -. MD. As the pathologiaz, I Offest that I: (4) the relevant. preparation(s) for the speciman(s); and (ii) Rendered the dagnosts(es). Clinical History: Right breast core biopsy from a. female. Specimen(s) Received: SP consult, slides only. Slide(s)/Block(s) Received: RECEIVED 1 SLIDE LABELED.