Specimen #: SPECIMEN: A: right axillary sent. node #1 and #2. B: right axillary sent. node #3 C: rt breast. FINAL DIAGNOSIS: A. LYMPH NODES, RIGHT AXILLARY SENTINEL NODES #1 AND #2, EXCISION : - TWO LYMPH NODES, NEGATIVE FOR MALIGNANCY ON ROUTINE AND. IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL STAINS. B. LYMPH NODE, RIGHT AXILLARY SENTINEL NODE #3, EXCISION: - ONE LYMPH NODE, NEGATIVE FOR MALIGNANCY ON ROUTINE AND. IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL STAINS. C. BREAST, RIGHT, SIMPLE MASTECTOMY: predominant, per T35. - MIXED EPITHELIAL/MESENCHYMAL METAPLASTIC CARCINOMA (CARCINOSARCOMA). - HISTOLOGIC GRADE: 3, POORLY DIFFERENTIATED. - TUMOR SIZE: 2.5 CM. - MARGINS: NEGATIVE. - LYMPH NODES: SEE PARTS "A" AND "B". - PATHOLOGIC STAGE: pT2 (m) NO (sn). - HORMONE STATUS: (Performed on specimen. - ESTROGEN RECEPTOR: POSITIVE. - PROGESTERONE RECEPTOR: POSITIVE. - HER 2 NEU: NEGATIVE. Comment: Three distinct masses were identified in the mastectomy. specimen, all located in the lower outer quadrant. The two larger masses. (#1 and #2) are histologically similar, showing a poorly differentiated. epithelial component as well as a mesenchymal component displaying marked. pleomorphism and fascicles of spindled cells. Staining of these biphasic. areas show strong pancytokeratin positivity in the epithelial component. while the spindled areas are negative. The histologic and. immunohistochemical pattern is consistent with metaplastic carcinoma. with a malignant sarcomatous component (carcinosarcoma) . While. mass. #1. and #2 are morphologically similar, they are not grossly or histologically. contiguous. The third mass (#3) is a different histologic type (adenoid. cystic carcinoma) It is also grossly separate from masses #1 and #2. As. per the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, the grade and stage of multiple tumors. of different histologic grade and/or type is based on the largest tumor. Specimen #: FINAL DIAGNOSIS (continued) : (mass #1) , as reflected above. Mass #3 is weakly ER positive (<5% of tumor. nuclei staining), PR negative, and Her- neu negative (1+ staining) . This case received intradepartmental peer review. References: Edge SB., Byrd DR, Carducci MA, Compton CC, eds. AJCC Cancer Staging. Manual. 7th ed. New York, NY: Springer; 2009. Start synoptic report format. - Specimen: Total breast. - Procedure: Simple mastectomy. - Specimen laterality: Right. - Tumor Site: Lower outer quadrant. - Histologic type: Mass #1: Mixed epithelial/mesenchymal metaplastic carcinoma. (carcinosarcoma). Mass #2: Mixed epithelial/mesenchymal metaplastic carcinoma. (carcinosarcoma). Mass #3 : Adenoid cystic carcinoma. - Tumor size (dominant mass) : 2.5 cm (measured grossly) . - Histologic grade (dominant mass) : - Glandular differentiation : 3. - Nuclear pleomorphism: 3. - Mitotic count: 2. - Overall grade: grade 3 score 8 of 9. - Tumor focality: Multifocal. Number of foci: 3. Sizes of individual foci: - Tumor #1: 2.5 x 2.0 x 1.8 cm (measured grossly). - Tumor #2: 2.0 x 2.0 x 1.8 cm (measured grossly). - Tumor #3: 1.1 x 0.8 cm (measured microscopically). Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) : DCIS is present; high nuclear grade. with central necrosis. - Lobular carcinoma in situ: Not identified. - Specimen integrity: Single intact specimen. - Specimen size (greatest dimension) : 21.0 cm. - Margins : Margins uninvolved by invasive carcinoma. - Distance from closest (deep) margin: 1.2 cm (Slide C3, Mass #1). Margins uninvolved by DCIS. - Distance from closest (deep) margin: 1.2 cm (Slide C5). - Macroscopic and microscopic extent of tumor: Page 2 4. Specimen #: CLINICAL DIAGNOSIS AND HISTORY: F diagnosed with right breast IDC, stage 2 ER/PR weakly positive Her2. 1+, that presents for preoperative evaluation prior to planned right. mastectomy with SLNB. PRE-OPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: POST-OPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Operative Findings: Post-operative Diagnosis: GROSS DESCRIPTION: A: The specimen is received in formalin, labeled with the patient's name. designated "Right Axillary Sentinel Node 1 and #2 Right. Axillary Sentinel Node" and consists of a 2.5 x 2.0 x 0.8 cm irregular. portion of yellow-tar soft tissue. Sectioning reveals two pink-tan lymph. nodes measuring 1.5 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm and 2.0 x 1.0 x 0.4 cm. Each lymph. node is trisected to reveal a pink-tan cut surface that is otherwise. unremarkable. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted as follows. A1: first described lymph node. A2: second described lymph node. B. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled with the patient's. designated "Right Axillary Sentinel Node #3" and. consists of a pink-gray lymph node measuring 2.0 x 1.5 x 0.6 cm. The. lymph node is trisected to reveal an unremarkable cut surface. The. specimen is entirely submitted in two cassettes. The specimen is received in formalin, labeled with the patient's. è designated "Right Breast" and consists of a right. mastectomy oriented with a short stitch superior and long stitch lateral. The specimen measures 21.0 cm from medial to lateral, 21.0 cm from. superior to inferior and 4.0 cm anterior to posterior. The darkly. pigmented superficial skin ellipse measures 6.2 x 4.5 cm and displays a. centrally located everted nipple measuring 1.0 cm in diameter. No. discharge is noted. No scars are noted. The specimen is inked as. follows: deep margin = black. superior surface of the lower outer quadrant = blue. Upon sectioning the cut surface is composed predominantly of yellow-tan. lobulated adipose tissue admixed with approximately 20% dense pink-white. fibrous tissue which is predominantly located in the central breast. Two. discrete masses are identified in the lower outer quadrant. Mass #1. Specimen #: FINAL DIAGNOSIS (continued) : - Skin involvement : Not involved by carcinoma. - Nipple involvement : Not involved by carcinoma. - Skeletal muscle involvement: Muscle is not present. - Treatment effect: - In the breast: No known presurgical therapy. - In the lymph nodes : No known presurgical therapy. - Lymphvascular invasion: Not identified. - Necrosis : Present within DCIS. - Microcalcifications: Identified within invasive and in situ carcinoma. - Lymph Nodes: - Lymph nodes sampling: Sentinel lymph nodes. - Number of sentinel nodes: 3. - Total number of lymph nodes: 3. - Lymph nodes with macrometastasis (>0.2cm) : 0. - Lymph nodes with micrometastasis (>0.2mm to 0.2cm) : 0. - Lymph nodes with isolated tumor cells (<=0.2 mm) : 0. - Size of largest deposit: Not applicable. - Extranodal extension: Not applicable. - Additional findings. - Intraductal papilloma. - Biopsy site changes. Ancillary studies: Performed on. - Estrogen receptor: Positive (1-5% tumor nuclei staining). - Staining intensity: Weak. Progesterone receptor: Positive (5% tumor nuclei staining) . - Staining intensity: Intermediate. Her-2 Neu by IHC: Negative (score 1+) . - Her- 2 Neu by FISH: Not performed. - Pathologic staging: - Primary tumor: pT2 (m). - Regional lymph nodes : pNO (sn). - Distant metastasis: Not applicable. Specimen #: GROSS DESCRIPTION (continued) : measures 2.5 x 2.0 x 1.8 cm. The cut surface is pink-ta and gritty. The. mass is located 1.4 cm from the deep margin and 1.0 cm from the. superficial margin. Mass #2, also located within the lower outer. quadrant, measures 2.0 x 2.0 x 1.8 cm. The mass is also well defined,. pink-tan and gritty. Mass #2 is located 3.0 cm from the deep margin and. approximately 1.0 cm from the superficial surface. Mass #2 is located. anterior and medial to mass #1. The two masses are adjacent and yet. appear discrete. The remainder of the lower outer and mid outer breast. shows a 5.0 x 3.0 x 2.5 cm area of dense pink-white fibrous tissue which. is focally indurated (mass #3) On sectioning, the cut surface is. pink-white and otherwise unremarkable with no discrete lesions identified. No additional lesions are identified. No lymph nodes are identified. Representative sections are submitted in twenty-two cassettes as follows: C1: skin and nipple. C2-C4: mass #1 with deep margin. C5: mass #1 with superficial margin. C6,C7&C8: additional mass #1. C9&C10: intervening tissue between mass #1 and mass #2. C11: mass #2 with superficial margin. C12: mass #2. C13: mass #2 with superficial margin. C14: mass #2. C15, C16&C17: indurated fibrous tissue mid outer breast (mass #3). C18: upper outer quadrant. C19: lower outer quadrant. C20: lower inner quadrant. C21: upper inner quadrant. C22: central breast. (some saved, three images taken labeled with mass #1 and mass #2). Mirrored images of mass #1 and mass #2 are submitted in paraffin and OCT. per. protocol. Time/Date of Specimen removal unknown. Time/Date in Pathology: Time/Date in formalin: Total time prior to fixation: unknown. Time/Date out of formalin: Total fixation time: 28 hr 45 min. Discrep ancy. Date Re ieweit.