Acct/Res. DIAGNOSIS. DIAGNOSIS. A. Right axiliary sentinel lymph nodes, excision: Metastatic adenocarcinoma involving da ; frozen section diagnosis confirmed. B. Right breast, mastectomy: Bloom Richardson up to 2.0 cm in maximal diameter as measured on glass slide, ruppecinger quadrent. Areas of anglolymphatic invasion suggested. No in situ component identified. Histologically unremarkable nipple and negative inked deep surgical margin of resection. Background of proliferative fibrocystic changes including moderate usual ductal hyperplasia and a single microscopic focus of atypical ductal. hyperplasia. Anciliary studies previously obtained. C. Right axillary contents, regional resection: Metastatic. The largest lymph node shows a multifocal microgranulomatous reaction associated with refractile foreign material. Staging sheet #25. Stage: T1cN1MX, stage lla. CÉINICA INFORMATION. CLINICAL HISTORY: Preoperative Diagnosis: Right breast cancel-. Postoperative Diagnosis: Symptoms/Radlologic Findings: SPECIMENS: A. Right axiliary sentinel nodes. 8. Right breast. C. Right axillary contents. SPECIMEN DATA. GROSS DESCRIPTION: A. The first container A is labeled and consists of two lymph nodes measuring 1.2 x 1.0x0.5 cm and 1.5 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm. The lymph nodes. were examined at the time of surgery and are subsequently entirely submitted In cassettes. is follows: FSA1--1; FSA2--2,. B. The' second container 8 Is labeled. nd right breast and consists of a portion of fibroadipose breast tissue that has been received previously. inked and sectioned with attached skin measuring 25.0 x 15.0 x 6.0 cm and weighs 830 grams. The skin surface measures 20.0 x 9.0 cm and is light. tan wrinkled. There is an area discolored by blue contrast dye surrounding the nipple measuring 6.0 cm. The nipple is centrally placed and appears. grossly normal. The specimen has oriented with a suture at superior. On sectioning there is a firm gray-tan fibrous mass measuring 1.2 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm. that is 1.0 cm from the deep margin of resection and is located predominantly within the upper inner quadrant. The surrounding breast tissue reveais. fatty fibroadipose breast tissue with fibmus Neque. There are no other lesions grossly Identified. Received with the specimen are two casseltes, one. representative sections are submitted in cassettes. as follows: nipple-1; sections from mass-2. to. 5, doep wargin overiying mass=6; sections from upper Inner quadrant--7; lower Inner quadrant--8; lower outer quadrant-9; upper outer quadrant--10. C. The third container C is labeled. ad right axillary contents and consists of a portion of fibroadipose tissue measuring 8.0 x 5.5x2.5. Sectioning reveals twelve probable lymph nodes measuring from 0.2 to 1.5 cm. The lymph nodes are entirely submitted in cassette: as. follows: five probable nodes-13 six probable nodes-2; one lymph node trisected--3 and 4. INTRA-OPERATIVE CONSULTATION: FSA: 'Metastatic neoplasm in at least one of the two lymph nodes' DE. Addendum: Pathology of positive for invasive lobular carcinoma. Patient needs. to be referred to a breast surgeon; Patient was called with results and will followup with. oni. for the. necessary surgioal referral. END OF ADDENBUM. ### VOICE TO TEXT SYNOPSIS ADDENDUM. Invasive lobular carcinoma Patient needs to be refeured to a surgeon. ADS: (6) Known blopsy - proven malignancy. END on ADDENDUM. FULL RESULT: Indication: Right breast mass. Vacuum-assisted ultrasound-guided core blopsy: Scana through the right breast at 1:00 again confirm a solld Irregular. mass. It has shadowing posterlorly. Following local anesthesia, a 10-gauge Cassi device was Introduced into the mass. under ultrasound guidance. using vacuum assistance, multiple core samples were obtained. Procedure was well tolerated. Clip placement: Under ultrasound guidance, a blopsy cllp was Inserted percutaneously into the area of the mass. This was. successfully deployed under vitrasound guidance. Right mammogram, post procedure: A postblopsy mammogram was obtained. This confirms placement of the biopsy. marker clip. It is well within the spiculated mass in the upper inner quadrant. IMPRESSION: Irregular solid mass right breast at. Ultrasound-gulded vacuum-assisted core blopsy performed. Cllp. deployed auccessfully into the blopsy site. Pathology pending. PATIENT INFORMATION. PHYSICIAN INFORMATION. SPECIMEN INFORMATION. Acct/Reg#: (. ADDENDUM REPORT. ADDENDUM REPORT NUMBER TWO. BREAST PROGNOSTIC PANEL: Block 2. TEST. REFERENCE RANGES. DNA Analysis by Image: DNA Index: SEE COMMENT. 0.9-1.1 is Diploid. < 0.9 or > 1.1 le Aneuploid. COMMENT: Insufficient tumor volume is present for quantitation of DNA by Image analysie. Her2 Gene Amplification By FISH: NEGATIVE. Average copies per cell: Her-2/neu: 1.82. Chromosome 17: 1.67. Ratio: 1.09. 20 Her2/neu. Case interpreted by. Notes: Quantitative analysis performed using Chromavision ACIS. The Her2 /neu and CEP17 probes are manufactured by Vysis Inc. The Her2/neu gene detection by Fluorescence in Situ Hybridization (FISH) was performed using the LSI Her2/neu DNA probe, specific. for the Her2/neu gene locus 17q11.2-q12 and the CEP1 DNA probe specific for the alpha antellite DNA sequence at the centromerio. region of chromosome 17 (17p11.1-q11.1). These tests were developed and performance characteristics determined by the. They have not. been cleared or approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that such approval or clearance le not. necessary. These tests are used for clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as Investigational or for research. This. laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act (CLIA) of 1988 as qualified to perform high complexity clinical. laboratory testing. Place of Service: Center for Advanced Diagnostics. ADDENDUM REPORT NUMBER ONE. BREAST PROGNOSTIC PANEL: (Preliminary test results on block A2). TEST. REFERENCE RANGES. Estrogen Receptor: POSITIVE (94%). > 4% is Positive. 2-4% is Borderline. < 2% is Negative. Progesterone Receptor: POSITIVE (89%). > 4% is Positive. 2-4% is Borderline. < 2% le Negative. KI-67 (MIB1) Proliferation Marker: BORDERINE (18%). 20% is High. 10-20% is Borderline. < 10% is Low. REPORT CONTINULE ON NE XT PAGE. Page: lof2. PATIENT INFORMATION. SPECIMEN INFORMATION. $. These results were interpreted by Dr. An additional addendum report will follow when DNA and Her-2-neu tests. are completed. These tests were developed and performance characteristics determined by. hey have not been cleared or approved by. the. US Food and Drug Administration. The FDA has determined that auch approval or clearance ls not necessary, These teats are used for. clinical purposes. They should not be regarded as Investigational or for research. This laboratory is certified under the Clinical Laboratory. improvement Act (CLIA) of 1988 as qualified to perform high complexity clinical laboratory testing. DIAGNOSIS. DIAGNOSIS: 10 gauge true cut ultrasound guided needle core biopsies of an Irregular 1 x 2 cm mass near the 0100 position within the right breast: Invasive lobular carcinoma. Size: Two cores partially Involved with largest linear dimension 6 mm as measured from siide A2. Eiston modification of Bloom-Richardson Grade: Architectural score: 3/3. Nuclear score: 2/3. Mitotic score: 1/3. Total score: No in situ carcinoma component present. No lymphovascular space invasion evident. No microcaleificatione seen. No other significant profiferative breast disease pattern present. Paraffin Block A2 submitted for breast cancer prognostic panel with results reported as an addendum (paraffin block A5 suitable If. additional material necessary). CLINICAL INFORMATION. CLINICAL HISTORY: Preoperative Diagnosis: Core needie biopsy, true cut, uttrasound core blopay anciliary test If malignant: Estrogen/Progesterone receptora, Her2-neu. Postoperative Diagnosis: Symptome/Radiologic Findings: Mammogram, ultresound, size irregular mass 1 x 2 cm. SPECIMENS: Right breast. SPECIMEN DATA. GROSS DESCRIPTION: Received in one container labaled right breast are multiple (15 to 20) soft paie veligw wispy fragments and come massuring up to 1.2 cm in. greetest dimension. The specimen is entirely submitted in five cassettes labeled. Case color blue.